# Using Github for Android.

I advise you to go through the previous tutorial if you haven't already. This tutorial describes how to use github.

1. Navigate to your github profile page. On the right side, you should see an option to create a new repository. 
2. Give your repository a name e.g SampleRepo, An Optional Description and choose Public Repository (you need credits to create a private repository) and click on Create Repository.
3. You will shortly see a Quick Setup Page. This is an indication that the remote repository (repo on github) has been created and is ready for use.

For the steps to follow, you should be slightly comfortable with terminal programming. If you aren't, now is the good time to start. 
Open Git bash, a terminal like window should appear on Microsoft Windows OS or terminal on Linux Ubuntu. 

Listed below are some of the Unix Commands. 
cd - "Change Directory", cd followed by directory name lets you change your current directory to the directory specified by cd.
ls - "List all", lists all the file under the present working directory.
pwd - "Present working directory", lists the current/present working directory. 
cd .. - "Directory back", goes one step back from the present directory.

If you are getting confused about the commands listed above, do not worry, please follow the rest of the steps. 

4. After opening git bash, navigate to your desktop by typing in the following command on git bash on windows or terminal on ubuntu
cd Desktop

5. Your path should change. After that make a new directory for your project. This directory will store the local version of your project. 
type in the command:
mkdir MyProject 
This should create a new Directory/folder on your Desktop with the name MyProject. 

6. Navigate to the directory just created. 
cd MyProject

7. Type in the following git command to initialize an empty git repository.
git init
You should see a command that says Initialized an empty git repository "Your_Path"

8. Navigate to the repository that you just created on github, and copy the url of the project, 
e.g mine looks something like this. 
https://github.com/skymanaditya1/SampleRepo.git

9. In the directory (in your computer) where you created initialized the empty git repo, type in the command
git clone followed by the url you just copied, e.g
git clone https://github.com/skymanaditya1/SampleRepo.git
It will issue a command saying, you have cloned an empty repository, ignore it and move further. 

10. Next step is move into this repository that you just cloned into your computer. type in the command:
cd SampleRepo

11. Type in the command "git status" on the terminal. This command is used to synchronize between the local repository and remote repository.

12. Create a new file in this repository and call it helloworld, type in the command
echo "This is the Hello World Program" > helloworld.txt

13. This command creates the helloworld.txt file on your computer. 
Type in the command ls and you should be able to see this file. 

14. Type in the command "git status", unlike before it will show the file helloworld.txt in red. It means you haven't yet added this file to the remote server.
Type in the command "git add helloworld.txt"

15. Type in the command "git status" and it should display the helloworld.txt in green with the label new file

16. Commit this file with the command "git commit -m "Initial hello world program"

17. It should display a command, 1 file has been committed. 

18. Next push this file onto the remote server with the command, 
git push origin master

19. It will ask for your github username and password, Enter your username and password as they appear. It should then push the file to the remote github server (your online repo)

20. Type in the comman "git status", you should see a command which displays
On branch master

......

21. Voila, you have created your first hello world project. Navigate to your online github repository if the file has been added to the github repository. 

If you able to implement the above mentioned steps, then you are ready to go ahead with project development using github. 

Github specific command would be discussed in the next tutorial.
